The victim is Tony sallinger.
He was found dead in his
hotel room by his sister Ruth.
From now on. no more secrets.
What do you think he
meant by that? I have no idea.
Anybody else think it's very
convenient this guy gets murdered
hours after he gets married?
A contaminated batch of heroin
was taken out of circulation.
Tony was involved in
a fatal rta 15 years ago.
Guess who the attending officer
was. The first person on the scene.
Richard gibbon. He took Tony to
the hospital to get the blood test.
Basically exonerated him.
Can I come down now? I'm
getting a bit hungry. Nearly. darling.
I leave in five days. You need someone.
I think I know who killed
Tony. I think it was my mum.
What makes you say that? Because
12 years ago she killed my father.
They found my dad's car by the cliffs.
with a note inside... But no body.
He's never been found.
This was two weeks
before my graduation.
He was coming up to Manchester.
He'd booked his train ticket. a hotel.
He'd even bought a new suit.
I just don't think that sounds like
someone planning to kill themselves.
But why do you think your
mother might have killed him?
Dad phoned me four
days before he died.
He was crying.
He said him and Monica had had a fight.
She'd been drying the carving
knife. when she just snapped.
She'd threatened him with it.
Literally. like. pointed it at him.
And. would you believe it. a
few days later he was dead.
And you didn't say anything to Monica?
No. not at the time. no.
But I did seven years later. though.
I told her what I thought
she'd done. Why then?
That was when dad was
officially declared dead.
So Monica arranged this.
like. memorial service...
And I watched her
and... She was relieved...
And she was happy.
so I told her I knew about the knife.
I said. "I think you killed him."
And. well. it destroyed our relationship.
But. over the next few
years. I started to have doubts.
I started to think maybe
I was wrong. and I...
I missed her.
I missed my mum.
But now you're saying.
again. she killed your father?
Because then I found out about
Tony saying "no more secrets".
Because then I found
out that he was stabbed.
Just give me two minutes.
Ok.
So Nicola's dad Alan
barton's disappearance
was properly investigated at the time
but it was deemed not suspicious.
Was there any mention of
Monica threatening him with a knife?
Yeah. Hang on... She
said that he imagined it.
You know that came out
at the memorial service?
Yeah. there was a big argument.
It was a bit more than an argument.
Nicola was cautioned
for harassing Monica
and being drunk and disorderly.
She made the accusation
to the officer that arrested her
and the ccrc. they reopened the case.
they went through it all again.
but they were happy that the
original investigation was sound.
It's been through the mill twice already.
Ok. yeah. Thanks. Simon. No worries.
Thank you for bringing
this to our attention. Nicola.
Leave it with us and we'll reach
out if there's anything else we need.
Right.
So that's... That's it. then?
Gotcha.
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
Thanks for your time. dci bergerac.
There are so many things we...
We just Bury.
And we think it's the right thing to do.
What's that? Tony's
speech is on Facebook.
Christ. The whole thing? Since when?
It went on a couple of
minutes after he made it.
It's on the Jersey golfing group.
The lad that posted it is a caddy
but he was also helping out
at the hotel with the catering.
It was his first gig. I don't think
he's going to be getting another.
How many people are in that group? 87.
Kara. can you get that taken down
asap? Yeah. I'll see what I can do.
Hey. Did you see that?
The video of the speech?
Yeah. Last thing we need.
Right. where were we
with Richard's report?
Ok. so. Tony was acquitted
of causing death by dangerous
driving on three counts.
Ice on the road. his clean
blood alcohol test and a witness.
Witness was the barman at the
pub where Tony spent his evening.
But Andy Todd was mistaken.
The witness did not say that
Tony was drunk. His statement
at the inquest said Tony was
drinking orange juice all night.
Now. ask me who the barman
was. Who was the barman?
Karl furman. Karl?
He used to work for a living?
Apparently he wasn't always
the lovable heroin addict we now know.
But. like I said. his statement
says Tony was stone-cold sober.
What did Nicola bar ton want?
She claims Monica killed her father.
and so killed Tony to cover it up.
Jesus! Based on what?
Nothing. you know? A feeling.
It's just like Andy. You know.
she just wants to make sense
of a shitty. shitty thing.
Is this the whole file? Yeah.
It says here that Karl was interviewed
the morning after the crash.
but all I can find here
is... The inquest statement.
Where's the original statement
from the day after the crash?
Karl's initial statement is missing.
And if it was assigned a
document number. then it was here.
It's been removed... Some
time between then and now.
Do you think Karl's original
statement said Tony was drunk
and he changed his story at the inquest?
Let's make that our first
question. That might be tricky.
I talked to robbery. they're
already looking for Karl
but he's hiding under a rock somewhere.
Ok. get on to response. I want
everyone looking for Karl furman.
In the meantime. let's
pay Richard gibbon a visit.
Don't you think that's a bit premature?
I mean. it's one missing
statement. It's just a conversation.
It was his case. after all.
If Andy Todd wants to make
an accusation of corruption.
we should be going to
professional standards.
Ok. what would we say to them?
Andy didn't even give us a name.
Ok. but this has to be strictly fact-finding.
There can be no mention of the c word.
Trust me. five minutes with Richard
and you'll want to use the c word.
but. yeah. it's purely for background.
That said... That said. what? That said...
What's this? Just a hunch.
Bear with...
Just...
I knew it. Richard gibbon is
in the same Facebook group
where the speech was posted.
Ok. so he sees the speech. yeah?
He rushes over to the hotel to stop
Tony from exposing their secret...
We don't know that they had a secret.
And we don't know that they
didn't. so. look. they talk. they argue.
yada-yada. because...
That is not a guest or a member of staff.
so let's find out where
Richard was on Saturday night.
Thank you. my love. Yes.
thank you. mrs gibbon.
You're welcome.
30 years next month.
I'd be lost without her.
Absolute carcass.
Shadow of my former self.
I'm so sorry Jim. how
insensitive. No. it's fine.
Keep your eye on this
one. Such precocious talent.
right from the get-go. Yeah.
Lone wolf. we called him. Didn't
like to mix with us mere mortals.
Or maybe that was just me.
Lone wolf? It'd be terrible if the
rest of the team heard about that.
And hard luck on the promotion. Barney.
Tough year this year.
But we thought your interview was...
Really something.
Richard. we wanted
to ask you about an rta.
La route de la trinite.
winter. 15 years ago.
Gosh. hold on... BMW hit a tree.
Route de la trinite?
Accessing memory banks!
Passenger died. is that right? Yeah.
Driver survived.
Yes. it's coming back to me now.
So muggins here had to take him
to hospital for a blood test.
Was that really 15 years ago?
Why are you asking about it now?
The hotel de clairemont murder.
the victim was Tony sallinger.
the driver of the car.
Good lord.
You know. I thought
the name rang a distant.
And you think the two
things might be related?
Well. we don't know... Yet.
But someone has made
an allegation of corruption.
That's... well. it's very vague.
Look. they didn't even
give us a name. just...
You know. connected to this incident.
Well. I'm afraid that's all I remember.
As I say. it was a long time ago.
Absolutely. And all of
this is purely for context.
but we have already taken
up too much of your time.
so. Jim. we should go. I
haven't finished my tea.
Look. so we have the full picture.
where were you between 7:45pm
and 8:30pm on Saturday evening?
Bird-watching at le sauchet.
Bird-watching.
At night?
I'm sorry? It's a bit late.
I mean... It's a bit late. no? At night?
I can't see how that would work.
The nightjar.
It's nocturnal. hence the name.
Do you bird watch alone?
I do.
It's great to see you. Richard.
We agreed. We said no mention
of corruption - that was the plan.
He's got a very nice house for a
superintendent. don't you think?
And his wife doesn't work.
I wonder when he bought it.
I wonder if it was after
Tony's car accident.
You think Tony bribed him and that's
how Tony ended up with the negative
blood test? It would be a pretty
solid motive to keep him quiet.
Also. there might be birds at le
sauchet. but you know there isn't?
Cctv. Which is the kind of thing
only a police officer would know.
Ok. I will check traffic cams
between here and there
Saturday night for his car.
Sighting of Karl furman at fort regent.
Suspect ran south from officer.
Two officers now searching
surrounding area. Any units...
That's what. five minutes away?
Let's go. lone wolf.
Uniform are up at the West Side.
Right. go ahead. cut him off.
Fuck.
You all right?
Karl... Karl!
Fuck!
Come on. love. You're going to be late.
I try to restrict Charlie's
access to the moral high ground.
Something smells interesting.
Bottarga. It's sicilian.
It's the cured eggs of a grey mullet.
The question is. what to pair it with?
A bucket. probably.
Did you get a chance
to look over the guest list
for your leaving party? No. not
yet. Let's do it now. then. shall we?
Nigel. can we have the list? Why. yes.
I shall be your glamorous
assistant. Thank you. sir.
I should have worn a leotard.
Looks good.
These are. what. Kim's friends?
Yeah? Kim's friends' parents.
Who... Who... Sorry.
who are these people?
Who's Bella rowntree?
They're my friends.
I rarely get to show off this family
and it's lovely. finally. to
have something to celebrate.
You're very welcome
to bring your friends. Jim.
Do you have friends? I don't
think I've ever seen you with one.
Yeah. I have friends.
You could bring that really
hot guy you work with. Barney?
I have no idea who that is.
Obviously we can't
all fit in to tommassi's.
so I've moved it to the lido.
Won't that be fun?
All you have to do is show
up in something that's not that.
Could we not have something smaller?
Just... just us. Just
family. Let's put it to a vote.
Who's for a smaller affair?
I don't have my glasses on. but
I don't think Kim voted for that.
So not getting in to this.
So. who's for a more fitting send-off
for our wonderful virtuoso?
Well. as Kim has not voted.
for some unfathomable reason.
that makes a tie.
What about you. Nigel?
Nigel gets a vote? I get a vote?
No.
I thought about what you said. Jim.
and. yes. maybe I have been
a little over-protective of Nigel.
I'm sure he can cope with a
few gossiping septuagenarians.
So. Nigel. as you're now part of
the family. you should vote. too.
Right. Blimey.
In that case... I vote for a fitting send-off.
Wonderful. That's decided. then.
And nothing less than she deserves.
I'm sure it'll be a lovely evening.
Hey. Uma wanted to see me?
Just take a seat.
I always get major headmaster's
office vibes here. Yeah.
So. look. I looked into the
route between Richard's house
and le sauchet on Saturday night.
He's got two ways he can get
there. only one has a traffic cam.
Let me guess. he took the other
one. Yeah. If that's where he went.
Right. let's widen the search.
see if we can pick his car
up anywhere near the hotel.
Good morning. uma. I
wouldn't be so sure about that.
Obviously you both know
superintendent Richard gibbon.
I think we should talk about
yesterday afternoon. don't you?
I'm sorry about yesterday.
It was the news about Tony.
It brought back a lot of stuff about dad.
Well. I loved dad. too. you know.
You forget that sometimes.
I know that sounds harsh...
But you do.
I want to ask you something...
About the things dad said before he died.
Nicola. please.
It would help me understand why he...
Why he killed himself.
I want us to be honest with each other.
He was... He was working too hard.
He wasn't sleeping.
Sometimes it was about money.
and then it would be something else.
it would be his health. his
job. But this is what I don't und...
Because every time I
spoke to him. he seemed fine.
That's because he didn't think that
there was anything wrong with him.
And some days there wasn't.
He was cheerful. he was affectionate.
But. it made it worse. in a way.
because I'd wake up and I
wouldn't know who he'd be.
Is that what the...
Carving knife was about?
Because you can tell me.
I'd understand if...
If you were frightened of him.
No. I told you. that never even happened.
He wasn't well.
He can't have been. to leave you.
Only me.
I hope you don't mind. I
took a set of your keys.
You're back.
I come here more in
sorrow than in anger.
If there is an allegation of corruption.
you should take it straight to
professional standards immediately.
What you do not do...
There is a clear and established
protocol. You know this.
Rules are there for a reason.
Rules are our guard rails...
Sorry.
Because this could be seen.
and I'm not saying it was.
but this could be seen as harassment.
Fuck!
Just answer it. Jim. No.
no. I'm putting it on mute.
There you go. Carry on. Richard. Sorry.
I just want to make sure that
we don't see a repeat of this
and that in future protocol is followed.
It will be. Thank you. Richard.
And now I'm sure these two
gentlemen would like to offer you a full
and unreserved apology.
Absolutely. I apologise for any distress
our actions may have
caused you or mrs gibbon.
Thank you. di Crozier.
Ditto.
Ok. it should only have been me in there.
Feel free to say. "I told you so."
For him to go to uma like
that. that was beyond petty.
That was to get us to back off.
Why would he do that if he
didn't have anything to hide?
I'm going to go back through
his report. word-by-word.
"I come here more in sorrow
than in anger"? What a prick!
Ok. great. Look. let's find his car.
Find exactly where he was when
Tony was stabbed. Christ. who is this?
Look. I'll see you upstairs.
"Rules are our guard
rails"? Shut the fuck up!
Bergerac.
Michael?
Hey. whoa. slow down.
She's done what?
Emma. such a good turnout.
Did you tell them you were dying?
No. darling. I told them you
were going to eat a carbohydrate.
They didn't want to miss it.
And who might you be?
This is Nigel. He and I
are seeing each other.
Nigel. this is Emma and Donald.
And how long has this been going on?
I'm very new.
It's a pleasure to meet you both.
That's quite a handshake there.
Donald. Let me guess. a yachtsman?
A 32-foot berthon gauntlet.
And what do you sail?
I used to surf. believe it or not.
When I was carrying a little less ballast.
You don't surf anymore. then?
There's too much keeping
me on dry land these days.
You see that?
You see how he talks about her?
I bet he doesn't sign her
birthday card "best wishes".
She isn't?
Who's that? Millie
faversham. I told you about her.
Her husband's been
arrested for insider trading.
She's having to rent out
her annexe as an airbnb.
Now. that's no way to live.
I'll ask Bobby to escort her
out. No. that would be vicious.
Move her to the table by the kitchen
and tell the waiters not to serve her.
She should get the message.
Hello. Nigel Morton.
I'm here with Charlie hungerford.
But then. you know Charlie. don't you?
Charlie. look. it's Millie.
I've never been here before.
so... Would you excuse me?
Millie!
Scandal obviously suits you.
Look at those cheekbones!
Run away. always the same!
I can't believe it...!
Finally.
Is everything ok? Arrest her!
She was secretly recording
mother with her phone.
Coming here. pretending
you're still family.
trying to entrap people
like a... Like a spy.
Hasn't mother been through enough?
Nicola. could you wait outside?
Fine.
I'd like to speak to Monica.
Well. I'm not stopping you.
She's right there.
Alone.
Michael. What?
Michael... It's ok.
Come on.
Why does Nicola think
you killed her father?
Because she can't accept what he did...
Because it would mean
that he didn't love her.
Nicola's an alcoholic.
Nicola's a mess. and...
You know. I know that
some of that is my fault.
But Nicola's dad... Has
to own some of that. too.
Doing what he did broke all our hearts.
Michael's. too.
I think that's why
Michael found it so difficult
to accept my relationship with Tony.
I wanted to ask you just a
couple of questions about Tony.
Did he ever talked to you about
the car accident 15 years ago?
Yeah. a bit.
His passenger died. He was devastated.
He used to dream about it.
Did he ever mention someone
called Richard gibbon?
He's a police officer.
Gibbon?
No.
I've never heard that name. Ok.
And you're saying that there was
tension between Michael and Tony?
When Tony told me that we
were going to lose this house.
we talked about selling the
cottage. but it's Michael's home.
and he doesn't cope
very well with change.
Michael needs stability. he needs peace.
We all do.
Especially Nicola.
I think she needs it more than anyone.
You were trying to entrap her.
I thought if I caught her
off-guard she'd slip up.
I'm sorry. but what do
you expect me to do?
You made it pretty clear that
you weren't going to pursue it
any further. Because it's been
investigated twice. carefully.
I know.
Look. maybe...
Maybe dad wasn't well.
Maybe he hid it from me.
If he did. it was to protect you.
It's what dads do.
Look. perhaps it would be best
if you went back to Manchester.
Best for who?
For everyone.
Because this isn't helping.
You. her. the case.
I'll keep you informed
of any developments.
You will?
Someone will.
Here we are again.
Hello?
Hi. My name is Ruth sallinger.
I'm Tony's sister. Can you talk?
I found Richard on
Saturday night. He lied.
He was nowhere near le sauchet.
His car was on the road headed
to the hotel. two miles out. Jesus.
That's 20 minutes after Tony's
speech goes on Facebook.
Then nothing for an hour. until...
We catch him on the
same road coming back.
That's plenty of time to kill Tony. Ok.
This is great.
You think this. with
Karl's missing statements.
you think they make a
case? Not on their own.
And this needs to be watertight. Right.
Ok... We know...
That Richard was at the
hospital for Tony's blood test.
We know... we think that there
are two different statements -
one said Tony was
drunk. one said he wasn't.
We know... it's possible Richard
saw the footage from Tony's speech.
We know that he did lie about his
movements the night Tony was killed.
All right. you're Richard...
How do you remove the
alcohol from Tony's blood?
I swap the bloods.
Have you got the results? Yeah.
Kara. have you got the
interim postmortem yet?
Yeah. on your desk.
It arrived this morning.
Really? Why didn't you tell me?
I did. I showed it to you.
You were busy. You just waved me away.
Doesn't sound like me. It does.
Ok. blah-blah-blah.
probable cause of death.
knife wound to the
chest. How do they do it?
What was Tony's blood type when
he gave a sample at the hospital?
A positive. Well. that's weird.
because when he died he was o positive.
Now we have a case.
If Richard wants proper channels...
That's exactly what we give him.
Inform professional
standards. let them handle it.
I will write a joint report on the
professional standards portal now.
then we send. Ok. what shall
we do now? Shall we hug?
No. we don't hug. Come on.
Jim. bring it in. No. I'm good.
You're not a lone wolf anymore.
Jim. You open up your heart.
I swear to god. you
touch me. it's assault.
I've known Monica since
she and Tony started dating
but I don't know her. know her.
so I needed to speak
to someone who does.
I wanted to ask you about the
accusation you made against her.
that she killed your dad.
Why do you ask?
I'm trying to ascertain
what she's capable of.
Tony told Monica told her he
was a partner in my company.
and obviously he isn't.
But he was worried that that
was what she loved about him
and that if he told her. that she'd
leave him and call off the wedding.
And what if Tony was right
and that is all Monica wanted?
She invested all this
energy into their relationship.
she thinks she's getting this lifestyle.
and then she finds out
that he's been lying to her.
What would her reaction be?
What if that's what "no
more secrets" meant
and he told her that night?
And that's what got him killed?
Jim?
Have you come to apologise properly.
or haven't you done quite enough
damage to your career for today?
Either way. now is not the time.
I've got the chairman
of the rotary club here.
Shall we pop something in the
diary for tomorrow? We'll invite uma.
You need to excuse yourself.
Make time.
Incident room.
This is cctv monitoring. There
was a request to locate Karl furman.
We've picked him up on a camera
on the north end of clairvale street.
Hang on. Clair...
Vale street.
Cheers. Thank you.
According to his interim postmortem.
Tony sallinger's blood
type was o positive.
Marvellous.
Fascinating. And?
This is the lab work for
Tony sallinger's blood sample.
the one that came
back negative for alcohol.
The sample that you were
responsible for supervising -
the one that got him off causing
death by dangerous driving.
The strange thing is. here.
Tony's bloody type is a positive.
Your sample was not
Tony sallinger's blood.
Here's what I think happened.
You switched the bloods to
save Tony. No. no. that's not true.
But then years later he's
about to come clean. you panic.
you rush over to the hotel
and you kill him to cover it up.
I've never killed anyone and
I've never. never been corrupt.
Well. I mean. you have the floor.
And. while you're at
it. can you explain how
a superintendent's salary gets
you a house this size. with this view?
Bought the year after Tony's acquittal.
I bought it with the money I
inherited after my mother's death.
You can check. We will.
And this?
Tony sallinger was in
a&e. it was taking ages.
so I wandered off.
When I came back. the
blood tests had been done.
I picked up the sample.
signed for it and that was that.
I didn't think anything
of it. Where did you go?
I'm not proud of this.
I imagine.
I was having...
An affair with a lady who
worked at the hospital - a nurse.
She was on duty that
night. so I... So we...
Look. I was gone maybe half
an hour. certainly not more.
Darling. what's going on?
You need to carve the joint.
I'm so sorry. Perhaps
Dennis could do the honours?
Please don't wait. I'll be in very shortly.
Just dotting some is and ts here?
Thank you.
When I came back from my...
Activity. I swear the blood
was just there. ready for me.
This nurse. what was her name?
How is that relevant?
I need to talk to her.
Annie franklyn.
Karl?
Now tell me where
you were Saturday night.
Because you weren't at le sauchet.
In fact. you were very close to
Tony's hotel when he's murdered.
My relationship with Annie is ongoing.
so I was at her house.
outside Saint ouen.
It's. I don't know. maybe a mile
and a half away from that hotel.
off the same road.
She's... Where I go
when I go bird-watching.
Please. please don't tell Julie.
Here's to 30 years of wedded bliss.
Listen. if the blood changed.
somebody else must have done it.
Then thank god we're not
relying on you to find out who.
Look...
We all know the reason you're
such a stickler for protocol.
That's because you have zero instincts.
no skills. no intuition.
I'll see myself out.
Enjoy your dinner.
Better one mistake in 35 years
than being vain. cavalier and arrogant.
Your disregard for protocol isn't
charming. Jim. It's dangerous.
It will end up getting
someone killed one day.
It might not be you. but
someone always gets hurt.
Karl?!
Karl?
It's all right. it's all right.
Easy... easy. mate. Look. hang on.
I'm a police officer. yeah?
I just want to ask you a few questions.
Now. it's about when
you were a barman. ok?
Do you remember. you gave
testimony at an inquest 15 years ago?
You said that someone who
crashed their car was sober.
Yeah.
Yeah. I remember. Really?
So. what... What do you remember?
I remember because the guy came back.
He paid me.
Ten grand.
I remember because Sally died.
So the man that you
told the police was drunk.
he came back and he paid
you to change your testimony
at the inquest and say that.
what. he hadn't been drinking?
I had to say I got it wrong.
I used to work with Sally.
She was so beautiful...
And he killed her... Cos he was drunk.
And I...
I took his money.
Ok...
No. look. whoa. whoa. hang
on. hang on. hang on. Karl.
Hey. listen...
I understand. and it's ok.
because the case could
be reopened. and. if it was.
would you be willing to testify
again. say what really happened?
Tell people that. well. the man
was drunk and then he bribed you.
Yeah... yeah. See. that's brilliant. Karl.
Right. so if I drive you
to the police station now.
would you be willing to say
what you just told me again
but on the record? I don't know.
I don't think I could handle that.
Not now. Karl. mate... Maybe tomorrow.
I could do... I could
do... I could do tomorrow.
Karl. addiction is... It's
an illness. mate. so...
How about I give you a little
something to tide you over. yeah?
Yeah. just...
Just to get us to the police station.
See. look...
I brought you this.
Good lad.
Help...
Subtitles by red bee media
Do you want subtitles for any video?
-=[ ai.OpenSubtitles.com ]=-